Welcome to another intriguing lecture on you I am in this lecture we are going to be looking at different
ways of laying things out in you.
Other than the canvas so that we can create a cool and flexible layouts like this one where it's slightly
different to how we've laid out the canvas side by side buttons.
But it can still be just as responsive to fluid changes in our UI size so if I bring in really narrowly
you can see those buttons are looking just fine up until the main menu doesn't fit on the screen anymore
of course.
But it is scaling pretty damn well.
So we're going to go ahead and find out how we can achieve this using some things called container widgets.
Let's dive in.
So up until this appoints widgets have been laid out in a very simplistic way now let's go ahead and
navigate to our menu system in the content browser open up the main menu because we're going to be working
on that and we want to be able to see it.
So that's one thing and we've got awp main menu.
Widget which I want I open up and bring into the main window.
Let's stop simulating for now so you can see how it's laid out.
But it's also not very well centred in the middle of the page.
And you know we can't achieve very many exotic layouts in this way.
So I want to tell you a bit more about how this is working in the first place and it's working with
something called a container widget.
So let's talk about how container widgets work you can find most of the container widgets in your pallet
under the panel category.
For some reason and you can see that there are a few of these.
One of which is called the canvas panel and actually you may not have realized it but you've been using
the canvas panel all along.
It's here at the root of your hierarchy just under the main menu widget you have a canvas panel and
this canvas panel is what's responsible for laying out all of its children.
The tags the button and the other button.
And how does this work.
Well basically you can put children under quite a lot of different elements including the button you
can see the button has got a child it's the text host.
But the difference between the canvas and the button is that the button can only have one child.
So if we went to the common elements in the pilot and tried to drag from there a text item on to the
button in the hierarchy you'll see that there is a low or no go sign saying which it can't accept additional
children because the button can only accept one child.
Okay.
So why is that.
That's because most widgets have the concept of child slots.
They basically means that you are as a child in a slot belonging to the widget and some might have infinite
many infinitely many slots.
Some might have a limited number of slots such as 1 in the Button's case but in all cases if you're
doing that you tend to get some properties given to the child from the parent.
So if I select my main menu text and have a look at the details you'll see that right the top we have
this section called slot in brackets canvas panel slot and these properties don't belong to the text.
No no.
They belong to the canvas panel but are related to this particular child.
So they are the things that allow us to lay out this item inside the canvas.
And we're familiar with how that works.
It's all the anchors and positions and alignment stuff that we've been talking about already.
Same with the buttons and so on.
But this isn't the only way to lay things out if we open up an button and look at the text inside the
button you'll see that there is a button slot as well except it doesn't have all those properties.
It has much simpler properties such as padding horizontal alignment and vertical alignment.
So what would happen for example if I changed a horizontal alignment to align fill.
Then you can see that that item the text item has grown to fill its button.
And if I do a line centre then it goes back to the centre and I can even change things like the padding
so if I put 100 padding then my complete disappears.
Basically the text disappears.
That's not a very good example.
But these aren't the only widgets.
Let's go through them one by one.
We talked a little bit about the camis widget let me just overview that.
So the canvass widgets properties are.
Anchoring.
So we've seen the anchor points and how you can spread out the anchor like this to give you proportional
scale.
And how it is a proportional offset so we can create an offset from a proportional point.
We've seen how you can use alignments and what else have we seen.
We've seen a little bit of size to content but that's not too important.
And we don't know what z order is just yet.
So Kamps is fairly straightforward and the Order of the children on the canvas doesn't matter too much.
Does a little bit but not too much.
And the main thing is the layout is done entirely element by element.
However there are other types of widget such as the horizontal and vertical boxes which do lay out in
a very different way.
Now let's go ahead and find one of those it's under the panel category in the powlett as I already said.
And it is the horizontal or vertical box is going to go with the vertical box.
The reason that I'm grouping them together is are they identical they're just one works vertically one
works horizontally stick my vertical box underneath the canvas panel as you can see.
It just shows up as any other box in the canvas pad but it's a bit empty at the moment.
The real magic comes about when you stick things under it.
So let's grab our main menu and the two buttons in the hierarchy and drag them under the vertical box.
Okay.
So what just happened that let's create our make a vertical box a little bit bigger and rescale it see
what is happening when we rescale you can see that the children of that box are getting laid out in
their order.
So the text first then button one then button two and they are filling the width by default.
And they are just not filling the height.
So if I reorder these children say if I put my text a little bit under the button then you will see
that that reorders them in there lay out as well.
So this is a slightly different paradigm for using children.
Let me put our maimie Text Back.
Okay.
And if we select any one of these you'll see that the slot properties are now different.
They're very similar to the button ones so we can select a horizontal alignment so it can be filling
the vertical box space or it can be horizontally aligned to the centre.
And so or to the left or to the right but also one more thing you can do is choose between size auto
which uses the height it makes me makes a minimum height possible depending on the size of the containing
element.
You can choose fill which tries to make it as big as it possibly can.
Making room for other film elements so if I had the other button also as Phil then you'll see that they
equally share the space that is available between themselves.
However I can change this Phil parameter to say how equally they are going to try and share their space.
So for example I might say that I want the button to have half as much priority on that extra space
and you can see that now it's going to be divided in two thirds goes to the main menu and one third
goes to the host button.
Okay so let's take those back to auto just to not confuse.
And you'll see that we're left with the empty space there.
So vertical box very similar to the horizontal box as well the horizontal box just does it horizontally
rather than vertically.
Fairly straightforward.
Now let's have a look at another type of a box.
Called the size box.
What does the size box do.
Well I will show you a little trick first of all.
Let's go and open up one of our buttons this the host button select that host button text and right
click on it.
And go to wrap with.
And select the scale the size box like so when you see what happens is it puts the size box in the place
where the text was and it has put the text underneath it.
So that is have a look at our size box and see what it does.
Apart from having the button slot properties which any item underneath the button would have it now
has a child lay out and this child lay out allows you to override certain positions and certain things
about its size and height and minimum height and maximum height and things like that.
An aspect ratio.
So you can use this when you want to enforce a certain size so if you wanted your button to be a certain
size and be a certain aspect ratio then this is what you could do.
You could say Max aspect ratio is going to be something like 1 for example or we can say that the height
and width needs to be exactly something and then I can set those a height and width as you can see me
changing this height and width is changing the height of the button because the button to the button
depends on the height of the thing inside it so you can use these size boxes in this way.
That's one way or you can use them as spaces.
So let's remove that box for now.
So I'm going to go out to replace with and replace with child.
So that removes the.
That's kind of analogous to the wrap with replaced with gets rid of it.
And I'm going to add in some size boxes under the vertical box.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Find a size box again it's under panel and bring it in as a child.
Of the vertical box and a sibling of the buttons are going to stick it between the two buttons.
So what we are doing here is we're trying to use it as a spacer.
So if I select this sized box and go to its vertical box slot propertys I can select fill and this will
basically use up the free space to put padding between the host and join buttons.
I find that very useful indeed.
We can bring in another size box and do the same thing just above our other button between the button
and the main menu text and hit fill again.
And you can see that it is all spaced out and nice and hunky dory.
Now one more thing one more useful thing is if you have things that lay out not vertically or horizontally
but from in-depth on top of each other then you need yet another component not the vertical box or the
horizontal box but rather a box or a widget called the overlay widget.
So let's bring the overlay into the scene.
Going to bring in as a child of the canvas panel obviously it looks the same as most of these other
layout things.
It is just a empty box to begin with.
But the difference is if I am brought in an image into the canvas serpell go to common image bring that
image into a canvas and you can see it just goes over the top of our main menu if I scale it up and
put it over the top of my menu it goes over it not under it.
Now you can use z order.
So correct for this I can make a negative order in it or go behind some things but that's a bit messy
and prone to breakage sometimes.
So I'm going to go change.
First off the colour of this background so let's go to the colour and opacity settings and let's see
can change that to black.
And what I wanted do is make robust ordering of these and the overlay panel is great for this so I can
put the image as a child of the overlay.
I can put the vertical box as a child of the overlay and you can see there's a pattern starting to emerge
if I bring this overlay create it bring up to size.
You'll notice that the menu the vertical box and the image have both shrunk to their minimum possible
sizes.
That's because if I click on one of them and look at the overlay slot properties by default it is just
trying to horizontally align it to the left top whereas if I choose to do a horizontal line fill and
vertical fill then it's going to try and fill that overlay with it and I can do the same thing with
the vertical box horizontal line fill vertical line fill.
And by changing the size of the overlay now we can change the size of that menu and the image.
Now that image is in the background the reason for that is that the order matters in the overlay just
like the vertical with her box.
It matters in Except in this time in which thing overlays the other.
So if I bring the image to the bottom of that list you'll notice the image overlays the vertical box
and if I bring the vertical box to the bottom of the list of children then it overlays the image.
So that's just another way of laying things out.
We've had vertical horizontal and now had in the z order.
So let's try and use some of this knowledge to create our own layout.
It's going to be your challenge is to create a scalable lay out the looks like the one in the challice
light with many at the top and host and join that side by side.
And the idea being I want this to work.
When you scale your window to all sorts of different resolutions you can use all the components that
you think are relevant.
Just go wild and experiment and try and see if you can really get a good understanding of these lay
out components.
Okay welcome back.
Let's give this a shot and shall we.
Okay.
So first things first I am going to take.
A horizontal box full laying out the host and join which it.
So let's go down to our panel horizontal box.
I'm going to put this horizontal box as a sibling to the buttons for now.
And I'm going to take these two buttons along with the size box in between them and stick them inside
the horizontal box then you'll see instantly they get laid out side by side not really perfectly as
I wanted but almost now the overlay I'm not going to need at this stage so I'm going to delete the image
and click right click on the overlay go to replace with and replace with child.
And they go we've got ourselves the vertical box and now just as the outermost thing so I can rescale
this around and you can see it already giving us a fairly good idea of what we want or it's looking
fairly close to what we were seeing already so we just need to look at how to position in the middle.
Now there's one way that you folks already know which is you to use the canvas panel slot.
But the other would be to position it inside basically any of these vertically either a vertical box
or a.
Well let's let's have a go.
So I want to position the vertical box inside perhaps another vertical box so let's right click on it
wrap it with and then a vertical box.
Like so.
And the other thing I want to do is see let's just try and see if we can replace the canvas panel together.
If I go to right click on the camors panel replace with yes replace with child so I can have a vertical
box at the top level and you'll see one problem here is that my in a vertical box is taking up all the
space.
Well if we click on the inner vertical box then we can make it not feel as part of its vertical box
slot properties.
So it will be minimum size and vertically aligned.
Try and vertically align it to the centre but we notice that it doesn't quite vertically align it to
the centre.
But if we do feel it does align itself to the centre how if we'd got no control over the size of this
vertical box is just going to be try try and be as small as possible so we can wrap that vertical box
in a size box.
And we can use that size box to override the width and height and create the sort of size that we actually
want.
Create a fixed size.
For the host and add join menus.
Like so.
So we've actually laid this out entirely without using a canvas now and it is perfectly aligned in the
centre with no faff.
So let's go ahead and hit play and you see we've got our host and join buttons and if we scale then
they seem to scale quite well.
Stop and play in a separate window so I can scale it more accurately.
Switch over to it.
And they go is scaling rather nicely.
Mostly taking up no extra.
No extra room.
So if we bring it in.
The buttons come in as well.
One thing we could do there is add a little bit padding on either side of the buttons to do that.
I'm going to take that take a size box and stick a size box on either side of the buttons inside our
horizontal box so let's stick some size boxes under the horizontal box.
One thing you'll notice is if you select a size box you can actually move it along with some arrows
in the UI as well which is quite handy way to do things and stick it to feel and feel.
On the other side of the size box as well and you can see a join.
Menus are brought in a little bit closer.
There's also change our size box size width a little bit because it's now a little bit narrow for the
host and join buttons.
So let's bring them out a little.
That's obviously just the maximum width because if it needs to be smaller it will be made smaller.
Let's go ahead and hit play.
And bring them in and they go.
It leaves a little bit of margin round the host and join buttons.
So I'm very happy with how that scales I'm unhappy with that as a solution to the challenge and we've
used entirely vertical boxes size boxes and horizontal boxes that we've just learnt about so we've really
started to understand how these container widgets work and how they can help us lay things out in more
flexible ways than the canvas widget alone.
Congratulations packed cells on the back.
Next letter we're going to be looking at how to make this look really beautiful with some images buttons
and fonts.
See you there.